# Reading and Writing Files in Python

**file systems**
Files on most modern file systems are composed of three main parts:

Header: metadata about the contents of the file (file name, size, type, and so on)
Data: contents of the file as written by the creator or editor
End of file (EOF): special character that indicates the end of the file

**File Paths**
When you access a file on an operating system, a file path is required. The file path is a string that represents the location of a file. It’s broken up into three major parts:

Folder Path: the file folder location on the file system where subsequent folders are separated by a forward slash / (Unix) or backslash \ (Windows)
File Name: the actual name of the file
Extension: the end of the file path pre-pended with a period (.) used to indicate the file type.

**Encodings**
The two most common encodings are the ASCII and UNICODE Formats. ASCII can only store 128 characters, while Unicode can contain up to 1,114,112 characters.

ASCII is actually a subset of Unicode (UTF-8), meaning that ASCII and Unicode share the same numerical to character values. It’s important to note that parsing a file with the incorrect character encoding can lead to failures or misrepresentation of the character.

[file modes](https://cdn.techbeamers.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Read-Write-File-in-Python-Explained-with-Examples.png)

**Opening and Closing a File in Python**
When you want to work with a file, the first thing to do is to open it. This is done by invoking the open() built-in function. open() has a single required argument that is the path to the file. open() has a single return, the file object:

file = open('dog_breeds.txt')

[opening file](https://cdn.guru99.com/images/Pythonnew/Python17.5.jpg)

[here are some tips and tricks to help you grow your skills.](https://realpython.com/read-write-files-python/)
