# Django CRUD and Forms

Django CRUD (Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete) Function Based Views:

+ Create – create or add new entries in a table in the database.
+ Retrieve – read, retrieve, search, or view existing entries as a list(List View) or retrieve a particular entry in    detail (Detail View)
+ Update – update or edit existing entries in a table in the database
+ Delete – delete, deactivate, or remove existing entries in a table in the database

## creating a form

1. create the model

    **After creating this model, we need to run two commands in order to create Database for the same.**
        Python manage.py makemigrations
        Python manage.py migrate

2. create form.py

3. Create View
Create View refers to a view (logic) to create an instance of a table in the database

4. Create a template in templates/create_view.html

5. Retrieve View
Retrieve view is basically divided into two types of views Detail View and List View.
**List View**
    List View refers to a view (logic) to list all or particular instances of a table from the database in a particular order. It is used to display multiple types of data on a single page or view

6. Create a template in templates/list_view.html

7. Detail View
    Detail View refers to a view (logic) to display a particular instance of a table from the database with all the necessary details. It is used to display multiple types of data on a single page or view, for example, profile of a user.
8. create a view and template for the same. In geeks/views.py

9. Create a template in templates/Detail_view.html
10. Update View
    Update View refers to a view (logic) to update a particular instance of a table from the database with some extra details. It is used to update entries in the database for example, updating an article at geeksforgeeks.
11. Delete View
Delete View refers to a view (logic) to delete a particular instance of a table from the database. It is used to delete entries in the database for example,In views.py

Template for delete view includes a simple form confirming whether user wants to delete the instance or not. In templates/delete_view.html,
