# Data Analysis

JupyterLab is a next-generation web-based user interface for Project Jupyter that enables you to work with documents and activities such as Jupyter notebooks, text editors, terminals, and custom components in a flexible, integrated, and extensible manner.
JupyterLab can be installed using conda, mamba, pip, pipenv or docker.

NumPy is a commonly used Python data analysis package. By using NumPy, you can speed up your workflow, and interface with other packages in the Python ecosystem, like scikit-learn, that use NumPy under the hood. NumPy was originally developed in the mid 2000s, and arose from an even older package called Numeric. This longevity means that almost every data analysis or machine learning package for Python leverages NumPy in some way.

Operations using NumPy
Using NumPy, a developer can perform the following operations −

1. Mathematical and logical operations on arrays.

2. Fourier transforms and routines for shape manipulation.

3. Operations related to linear algebra. NumPy has in-built functions for linear algebra and random number generation.

NumPy – A Replacement for MatLab
NumPy is often used along with packages like SciPy (Scientific Python) and Mat−plotlib (plotting library). This combination is widely used as a replacement for MatLab, a popular platform for technical computing.

The best way to enable NumPy is to use an installable binary package specific to your operating system
    `pip install numpy`
For Ubuntu

    sudo apt-get install python-numpy 
    python-scipy python-matplotlibipythonipythonnotebook python-pandas 
    python-sympy python-nose
    
The most important object defined in NumPy is an N-dimensional array type called ndarray. It describes the collection of items of the same type. Items in the collection can be accessed using a zero-based index.

Every item in an ndarray takes the same size of block in the memory. Each element in ndarray is an object of data-type object (called dtype).

Any item extracted from ndarray object (by slicing) is represented by a Python object of one of array scalar types. The following diagram shows a relationship between ndarray, data type object (dtype) and array scalar type −