# Readings: React 3


Create a Next.js App
Next.js: The React Framework
Enter Next.js, the React Framework. Next.js provides a solution to all of the above problems. But more importantly, it puts you and your team in the pit of success when building React applications.

Next.js aims to have best-in-class developer experience and many built-in features, such as:

An intuitive page-based routing system (with support for dynamic routes)
Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis
Automatic code splitting for faster page loads
Client-side routing with optimized prefetching
Built-in CSS and Sass support, and support for any CSS-in-JS library
Development environment with Fast Refresh support
API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless Functions
Fully extendable
Next.js is used in tens of thousands of production-facing websites and web applications, including many of the world's largest brands.


Create a Next.js app
To create a Next.js app, open your terminal, cd into the directory you’d like to create the app in, and run the following command:

`npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/learn-starter"`


Run the development server
You now have a new directory called nextjs-blog. Let’s cd into it:

`cd nextjs-blog`
Then, run the following command:

`npm run dev`

Editing the Page
Let’s try editing the starter page.

Make sure the Next.js development server is still running.
Open pages/index.js with your text editor.
Find the text that says “Welcome to” under the <h1> tag and change it to “Learn”.
Save the file.

Next Up: Creating Pages

Create a new page using the integrated file system routing.
Learn how to use the Link component to enable client-side navigation between pages.
Learn about built-in support for code splitting and prefetching.

Link Component
When linking between pages on websites, you use the <a> HTML tag.

In Next.js, you use the Link Component from next/link to wrap the <a> tag. <Link> allows you to do client-side navigation to a different page in the application.

Using <Link>
First, open pages/index.js, and import the Link component from next/link by adding this line at the top:

import Link from 'next/link'
Then find the h1 tag that looks like this:
```html
<h1 className="title">
  Learn <a href="https://nextjs.org">Next.js!</a>
</h1>
And change it to:

<h1 className="title">
  Read{' '}
  <Link href="/posts/first-post">
    <a>this page!</a>
  </Link>
</h1>
```
{' '} adds an empty space, which is used to divide text over multiple lines.

Next, open pages/posts/first-post.js and replace its content with the following:
```python
import Link from 'next/link'

export default function FirstPost() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>First Post</h1>
      <h2>
        <Link href="/">
          <a>Back to home</a>
        </Link>
      </h2>
    </>
  )
}
```
As you can see, the Link component is similar to using <a> tags, but instead of <a href="…">, you use <Link href="…"> and put an <a> tag inside.