# React

React is a JavaScript library.

Introducing JSX
Consider this variable declaration:
     `const element = <h1>Hello, world!</h1>;`
This funny tag syntax is neither a string nor HTML.

It is called JSX, and it is a syntax extension to JavaScript. We recommend using it with React to describe what the UI should look like. JSX may remind you of a template language, but it comes with the full power of JavaScript.

JSX produces React “elements”. We will explore rendering them to the DOM in the next section. Below, you can find the basics of JSX necessary to get you started.

Why JSX?
React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

Rendering Elements
Elements are the smallest building blocks of React apps, Unlike browser DOM elements, React elements are plain objects, and are cheap to create. React DOM takes care of updating the DOM to match the React elements.

Updating the Rendered Element
React elements are immutable. Once you create an element, you can’t change its children or attributes. An element is like a single frame in a movie: it represents the UI at a certain point in time.

With our knowledge so far, the only way to update the UI is to create a new element, and pass it to ReactDOM.render().

Components and Props
Components let you split the UI into independent, reusable pieces, and think about each piece in isolation. This page provides an introduction to the idea of components.
Conceptually, components are like JavaScript functions. They accept arbitrary inputs (called “props”) and return React elements describing what should appear on the screen.

State and Lifecycle
There are three things you should know about setState().
The only place where you can assign this.state is the constructor.

State Updates May Be Asynchronous
React may batch multiple setState() calls into a single update for performance.

Because this.props and this.state may be updated asynchronously, you should not rely on their values for calculating the next state.

Handling Events
Handling events with React elements is very similar to handling events on DOM elements. There are some syntax differences:

React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase.
With JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.

Step 1: Break The UI Into A Component Hierarchy
The first thing you’ll want to do is to draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names. If you’re working with a designer, they may have already done this, so go talk to them! Their Photoshop layer names may end up being the names of your React components!

But how do you know what should be its own component? Use the same techniques for deciding if you should create a new function or object. One such technique is the single responsibility principle, that is, a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

Since you’re often displaying a JSON data model to a user, you’ll find that if your model was built correctly, your UI (and therefore your component structure) will map nicely. That’s because UI and data models tend to adhere to the same information architecture. Separate your UI into components, where each component matches one piece of your data model.

Diagram showing nesting of components
You’ll see here that we have five components in our app. We’ve italicized the data each component represents.
