# Authentication & Production Server

## What is JSON Web Token?

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

What is the JSON Web Token structure?
In its compact form, JSON Web Tokens consist of three parts separated by dots (.), which are:

Header
Payload
Signature
Therefore, a JWT typically looks like the following.

xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz

### How to Use JWT Authentication with Django REST Framework

Installation & Setup
we are going to use the djangorestframework_simplejwt library, recommended by the DRF developers.

        pip install djangorestframework_simplejwt
settings.py

        REST_FRAMEWORK = {
            'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
                'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
            ],
        }
urls.py

        from django.urls import path
        from rest_framework_simplejwt import views as jwt_views

        urlpatterns = [
            # Your URLs...
            path('api/token/', jwt_views.TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name='token_obtain_pair'),
            path('api/token/refresh/', jwt_views.TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name='token_refresh'),
        ]

### Django Runserver Is Not Your Production Server

ou’ve been running your app locally with python manage.py runserver. That’s a fine command, built for development convenience, but it’s not meant to be used as part of a production setup. So the server started with runserver is not guaranteed to be performant (it’s very slow), and it hasn’t been built with security concerns in mind. Not a good fit for production use.

**A Production Stack**
You want to only use tech in production, which is reliable, well tested and has been around for a while.

A production setup usually consists of multiple components, each designed and built to be really good at one specific thing. They are fast, reliable and very focused. When a request arrives at your server, it should be passed to a dedicated web server. Nginx is an example for a good web server.

This is an application, which is great at serving static files from disk (your css and js files for example) and handling multiple requests at once. If the request is not for a static file, but should be processed by your application, the webserver is configured to pass this request to the next component.

The next component is an application server. It gets those fancy requests and uses them to construct Python objects which are usable by Django. WSGI is a specification which people agreed on, which describe how that happens. Gunicorn is an example for a WSGI server.

Your project provides a uwsgi.py file, which contains a function to be called by the application server. This function gets a Python object representing the incoming request. This function calls your code, and produces a response object which is passed to the WSGI server. There the response is translated into a HTTP response and is passed back to the web server, which finally delivers it to the user.

#### Resouses

[JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction/)
[Auth](https://simpleisbetterthancomplex.com/tutorial/2018/12/19/how-to-use-jwt-authentication-with-django-rest-framework.html)
[prodection per](https://vsupalov.com/django-runserver-in-production/)
